The R code is for the article "A Bayesian Hurdle Quantile Regression Model for Citation Analysis with Mass Points at Lower Values". This research focuses on two challenges for the analysis of citation counts by quantile regression (QR): discontinuity and substantial mass points at lower counts, such as zero, one, two, and three. In this research, an update of a Bayesian two-part Hurdle QR model was introduced to scientometrics to address these problems. The original Bayesian two-part hurdle QR model was introduced for the case of count data with a substantial mass point at zero. It allows the zeros and nonzeros data to be modeled separately but simultaneously. For citation count data, as well as a substantial mass point at zero in some fields there can be substantial mass points at lower counts, such as ones, twos, and threes, that influence the estimation of the model. Therefore, we introduce a method to shift the hurdle forward to discard the effect of the substantial mass points on the estimation of the model for fields with many low cited articles. Articles without more citations than the hurdle are regarded as “low cited articles”. In this new update, the model enables analyses of the citation counts of low cited articles simultaneously but separately from those of the moderately and highly cited articles.It uses jittering for the citation counts greater than the hurdle to render such data continuous. The model benefits from the power of its QR portion for modeling the different quantiles of the jittered citation counts, and its logistic portion for analysing the influence of factors such as collaboration, title length, and journal internationality on the chances of an article receiving few citations. The usefulness and applicability of the method were illustrated based on both simulated and real citation count data.




Simulation stydy

For simulation study, samples with sizes of 500, 1000 and 3000 are simulated from continuous log-normal distribution(LN)with mean(2−0.2∗x1 +0∗x2 +ε) and standard deviation 0.4 where x1 ∼LN(2,2), x2 ∼ N (0.5, 0.5), and ε ∼ N (0, 1). The log-normal distribution was chosen because it approximates the typical distribution of citation counts. The floor function was used for the simulated values less than 4 to simulate substantial mass points at 0, 1, 2 and 3. The intercept value of 2 and the coefficient −0.2 of x1 were chosen so that approximately 45% of the data will be zeros and 75% of the data less than 3, similar to much citation count data. Bayesian QR and Bayesian two-part QR models with hurdle at 0, and with hurdle at 3 will be fitted. The objective is to compare Bayesian QR with the QR parts of the two-part models with hurdles at 0 and 3. For each sample size and for each quantile level, the Bayesian QR model is fitted to the whole data. Then the quantile level of the corresponding quantile value is found in the data in which the zeros are excluded and the Bayesian QR model is fitted, (i.e. the QR part of the two-part model with hurdle at 0). Next, the quantile value corresponding to the quantile level is found in the data in which all substantial mass points (including 0,1,2, and 3) are removed and the Bayesian QR model is fitted for the corresponding quantile (this model is the QR part of the two-part model with hurdle at 3). 
This process is repeated 100 times for each sample size, and for 4 specific quantiles of 0.75, 0.85, 0.90, and 0.95 (of the whole data) separately. For each combination, the prediction error of each model, the mean squared error of the parameters’ estimates (intercept excluded), and the width of the credible intervals for both independent variables x1 and x2 are computed. The function jags from the R-library R2jags which is based on Gibbs sampler was used for MCMC computation corresponding to the Bayesian QR models. In this function, three chains will run. For each chain, 10000 iterations with burn-in 1000 and thinning number of 90 were considered. All the R code for this simulation is available in the file of "R_Code_Simulation.r".




Study of real citation count data

The data used in this article consists of citation counts for standard journal articles (excluding reviews) published in the following seven Scopus fields: Arts and Humanities (all), Literature and Literary Theory, Religious Studies, Visual Arts and Performing Arts, Media Technology, Architecture, and Emergency Nursing. The articles were published in the year 2010 and their information was extracted at the end of the year 2019, giving the citation counts time to mature. The number of citations to each article is the dependent variable. Collaboration, length of title, and journal internationality were selected as independent variables. A sequence of quantiles from 0.05 to 0.95 is considered. Ordinary Bayesian QR, Bayesian two-part QR with hurdle at 0 and Bayesian two-part QR with hurdle at 3 were fitted to the datasets. MCMC was calculated again with the jags function by considering three chains. For each chain, 100000 iterations with burn-in 50000 and thinning size of 160 were used. Based on a pre-test, the autocorrelation plots for the parameters corresponding to the journal internationality in both parts of the model showed a slow decreasing pattern, indicating slow mixing in the chain. To fix it, such a large number of iterations, burn-in and thinning size were selected. All the R code for this study is available in the file of "R_code_citation_counts_R2jags.r".



